COP3402 CLASS NOTES 09/10/2018
Written by Soliman Alnaizy
Note to reader: I think these notes would look best if you either make it full screen or shrink the font.

Reminders:
	- The virtual machine assignment is due in less than a week.
	- If you need help with github, feel free to send the professor an email or stop by his office hours.
	- If you haven't started yet, you're going to want to start soon :)

Compilers and Interpreters (Lecture 4 slides from the course's github repo)
	- A compiler is broken down into two parts, the backend and the front end

	Front end:
		_ Converts the human-written source code into an intermediate generated code
		_ This process involves:
		1) Lexical Analyzer:  Finds and tokenizes words and keywords in a code. Ex: Looks for if-statements, loops, etc...
		2) Syntax Analyzer:   Makes sure that the code is written in the correct format. Ex: Ensures that there's a condition
		  -                    after an "if" keyword.
		3) Semantic Analyzer: Interprets the meaning of the of code. Ex: Difference between a '+' and a '-'. This is also the
		                      the stage that converts the source code into intermediate code.

		_ An advantage to creating an 'intermediate code', is that you can redirect the intermediate generated code to another
		  back end. So you can use the same intermediate code for different machines.

		_ The 'Symbol table' stores all the different variables and their scopes. This is useful to make sure that the user is
		  not calling a variable in a place outside of it's scope. Ex: Calling a variable that's declared in another function
		  in C

		NOTE: In the PL/0 program we're studying, the ':=' sign is an assignment operator (i.e. it works the same as a '=' sign
		      in C)

		_ Context analysis: An example of context analysis would be type casting. In C, if you multiple a float with an int
		                    The result will be an float. Even though you (the programmer) did not explicitly mention that.


		_ Order of operation: In order to preserve the order of operation in a math expression, we use tree diagrams, and use
		                      a post order traversal.

		Example: f := 32 + 1.8 * c

		It's represented as                      :=
		                                       /    \            // If you do a post order traversal of this tree, you will get
		                                     f       +           // the original statement f := 32 + 1.8 * c
		                                            /  \
		                                           32   *
		                                               /  \
		                                              c   1.8

		PL/0:
		- In order to understand what's going on in any language, we first need to know what the words mean.
		- You want to start by identifying the keywords (aka reserved words) and the special characters.
		- Identifiers are a combination of letters and numbers, that are used to refer to variables.
		- The entire program language must consist of a finite set of letters (and numbers)
		
